[SOUND] In this video, we're talking
game design for Laser Defender, and
I wanted to take a moment just
to show you that I've gone and
spruced up the graphics a little bit.
Scrolling back around, some more
interesting bombs and lasers, and
all that kind of good stuff
without enemies, without players.
So this is the game, this is my prototype.
You and I are gonna work on something
that'll probably end up like this.
That's our goal or our game plan.
And so the game itself.
Lets just have a look at the features
that we require in our game.
And a side note,
these is how I do my game design document.
If I'm working on an indie project or
its just me and maybe one other person.
This is it.
I know a lot of people ask don't I need
a GDD with lots of information in it?
When you're making a game like this,
you don't really need to write it all down
cuz you're just jumping in and doing it.
So what are we jumping in and doing?
Well, we're saying,
we need to have a score on the right.
Over here the score, the left is health.
So we need to have that
somewhere on the screen.
We need to have enemy waves on path.
Now, some people might say,
well in your GDD or Game Design Document,
don't you need to map out what all
the parts are and how they work?
Not really.
[LAUGH] All we need to know is that
the enemies come in from off screen,
do some stuff, circle around, up and down,
left and right, dive, bomb the player.
And then they disappear
off the screen again.
We don't need to map all
that out in a document.
It's a bit of a waste of time,
you need to get into the engine and
play around with it before you
know what's gonna work well.
The enemies need to be able to shoot.
As you can see they're
shooting bullets down.
I'd like to have a scrolling
background in our game, so
I've made this nice little
star field in there.
And also some parallax, pseudo parallax
by having some particle effects
dropping down that'll make more
sense as we go through this section.
And the player, obviously,
needs to be moving left or right.
For this design, I've decided not to have
the player moving up or down but you could
totally add that as functionality
into your game if you wanted.
Have the player roam
anywhere within the world.
I think that would be really cool.
Something you can add for sure and,
of course, the player needs to shoot.
Now in terms of the core games on,
I told a little bit of a fib before when
I said this is all I'd come up with.
I'd say these two slides is
usually what I've come up with.
This is very, very important that
you have the prior experience and
we've talked about this a few times, so
I'm not going to bang on about it to much.
But you need to know what
are you trying to create?
What emotion, what experience
are you creating for the player?
I'm creating frantic in this.
Lots of bullets, a little bit of bullet
hell going on, bullets everywhere,
the player, left, right.
My goodness!
I got that, I'm in trouble!
So that frantic experience.
Core Mechanic, obviously,
shoot enemies, dodge bullets.
The theme is some sort of
space wars type thing.
I'm flying through space in
my spaceshipy kinda things.
And the core game loop.
It's pretty obvious, but
it's good to write this out.
It's a single level where we have endless
play where a player shoots enemies for
points or for score until their
health reaches zero and game over.
It's basically go for
as long as you can, get a big score and
when you're out of health then you die and
the game is over.
So the challenge I have for
you at this point is would you like to use
my assets that you could see
on the screen just here.
This is the sort of assets, I'm using a
Kenny's asset pack which is free and I'll
provide you the assets for that, as well
as you can go grab your own from Kenny.
Use my assets or find your own.
So if you have a vision for
making maybe a pilot game or
you're flying over clouds or a racing car
game where you're driving through streets,
that would be fine as well.
Or any other sort of top down shooter
then this might be a time for
you to flex your creative
muscles in that area.
So if you're gonna do your own thing,
find your assets now.
That's the challenge.
And what you'll need is obviously
a player, you'll need some enemies,
you need a background, you need some
bullets, and some sound effects as well.
Those are the assets you would
need to have to start off.
If you'd like to use mine, not a problem.
I'll be providing that for
you in upcoming lectures,
where you can dowload it no problem.
So if you're doing the challenge
jump in and do that now,
otherwise I'll see you in
the next video right away.
Let's get started.